---
title: Digital Transformation of a City 
publishDate: 2019-10-02 00:00:00
img: /assets/Montauban2.0.png
img_alt: Soft pink and baby blue water ripples together in a subtle texture.
description: |
  Under the name Montauban 2.0 lie several projects related to digital and new technologies 
tags:
  - Tech
  - Communication 
  - Branding
---

Smart City
The SmartCity project aims to improve the quality of life of residents, thanks to objects connected to urban development. A first step has already been taken within the framework of the “Global Public Performance Market” and the installations in October 2021, of lighting.

This renovation and enhancement project for public lighting infrastructure will allow the City to reduce its energy consumption by 71%, or 5 million euros in energy savings. But also €1 million in maintenance savings, thanks to a 100% LED fleet and 100% connected public lighting. By reducing luminous flux and color temperature, this project also prioritizes the reduction of light pollution, the protection of biodiversity and the balance of the ecosystem.
Connected luggage, noise sensors, connected benches, selfie terminals... Montauban aims to become a connected and intelligent territory. These projects are an opportunity to strengthen the City's influence on a national scale.

Montauban in 3D
Without leaving your home, enjoy the Cité d’Ingres and find yourself in total immersion in the most beautiful settings of the City. Virtual tours are carried out using drones and 360° cameras to ensure optimal quality. Montauban as if you were there, this is the objective of this project with a 3D virtual tour.
Montauban sets foot in the Metaverse
Live this unique experience! Don't miss the opportunity to immerse yourself in your virtual city for crazy experiences... in real life! Montauban will be visible in the metaverse, this new form of virtual life which fascinates, from the youngest to the most experienced in the field. Buying works of art, visiting unique places and even buying emblematic places, everything is possible in this futuristic universe! Be the first to be surprised by this adventure.

The “City of Montauban” application
In 2021, 60% of visits to the City's website were made from a smartphone. The increasing use of the site has pushed the City to adopt its own application in order to simplify searches, procedures and obtaining information. This application includes all the elements present on the website. You will be able to find the events calendar, news, practical information, as well as carry out administrative procedures. This is a practical tool that is suitable for everyone! Montalbanians and visitors will be able to book their visit to the Ingres Museum, pay their child's canteen costs, or even report a problem encountered in a public space. The application is the tool that connects you, the tool that brings us together!
